docs/index.rst, before:

Welcome to cosipy's documentation!
==================================

The cosipy library is `COSI <https://cosi.ssl.berkeley.edu/>`_'s high-level analysis software. It allows you to extract imaging and spectral information from the data, as well as to perform statistical model comparisons. The cosipy products are meant to be ready for interpretation.

The main repository is hosted at https://github.com/cositools/cosipy

In the following sections you will find:

- Installation instructions
- A tutorial series explaining the basics of various components of cosipy
- Further usage examples
- The Application Programming Interface (API), describes the various available classes, their properties, and usage.

.. warning::
   While many features are already available, cosipy is still actively under development. COSI is scheduled to launch in 2027. In preparation, the cosipy team will be releasing alpha versions with approximately an annual cadence. Your feedback will be greatly appreciated! Note, however, that these are not stable releases and various components can be modified or deprecated shortly.


Contributing
------------

Cosipy is open-source and anyone can contribute. It doesn't matter if you are part of the COSI team or an external contributor. 

The preferred communication channel is the GitHub repository:: if you find a problem, please report it by opening an issue; if you have a question or an idea on how to collaborate, please open a discussion; if you have code to contribute, please fork the repository and open a pull request.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

   install
   tutorials/index
   tutorials/other_examples
   api/index

Commit message:

Add link to data challenge 2 page.

docs/index.rst, after:

Welcome to cosipy's documentation!
==================================

The cosipy library is `COSI <https://cosi.ssl.berkeley.edu/>`_'s high-level analysis software. It allows you to extract imaging and spectral information from the data, as well as to perform statistical model comparisons. The cosipy products are meant to be ready for interpretation.

The main repository is hosted at https://github.com/cositools/cosipy

In the following sections you will find:

- Installation instructions
- A tutorial series explaining the basics of various components of cosipy
- Further usage examples
- The Application Programming Interface (API), describes the various available classes, their properties, and usage.

See also `COSI's second data challenge <https://github.com/cositools/cosi-data-challenge-2>`_ for the scientific description of the simulated data used in the tutorials, as well as an explanation of the statistical tools used by cosipy.
  
.. warning::
   While many features are already available, cosipy is still actively under development. COSI is scheduled to launch in 2027. In preparation, the cosipy team will be releasing alpha versions with approximately an annual cadence. Your feedback will be greatly appreciated! Note, however, that these are not stable releases and various components can be modified or deprecated shortly.


Contributing
------------

Cosipy is open-source and anyone can contribute. It doesn't matter if you are part of the COSI team or an external contributor. 

The preferred communication channel is the GitHub repository:: if you find a problem, please report it by opening an issue; if you have a question or an idea on how to collaborate, please open a discussion; if you have code to contribute, please fork the repository and open a pull request.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

   install
   tutorials/index
   tutorials/other_examples
   api/index
